Welcome to IST 772!

I'm looking forward to our class this semester. Statistics is a fun course to teach because it includes a set of specific skills to learn (e.g., the statistical tests) backed up with important concepts to master (e.g., what a statistic is).

I wanted to take this opportunity before classes start to set some expectations for the class.

A first expectation is the importance of being prepared for the live sessions, meaning having done the readings and watched the videos beforehand. The text is now available for purchase. A couple hints for the videos: don't forget that you can change the playback speed to either speed up or slow down the playback; and for the software demos, watching in high quality will let you see the screen more clearly.

Second, during the live sessions participation is required. The live sessions are an opportunity to test and to apply your knowledge and to get feedback. We have a small class, so I do expect everyone to participate in every class. Try to set up an environment that minimizes distractions, so you can focus on and contribute to our discussion (e.g., quit your email, close Facebook, mute your phone). Similarly, feel free to use the chat during class to comment or ask questions, but I ask that you keep those comments on topic. We can experiment with ways of asking questions during class, but I think the class is small enough that just raising your hand or asking will work. Empirically, there is a strong correlation between asking questions and doing well in the course, so ask away!

Third, when you have questions outside of the live sessions, you should email. I check email pretty regularly, so you can usually expect a reply within a few hours, though there will be times that I am in all day meetings and can't reply until the next morning. If I'll be away from email for longer than that, I'll post a message so you know. We can discuss in the first class whether a scheduled online office hour will be helpful.

Finally, you'll note that you have some kind of assignment due every week. I set the due dates before the live sessions, with the intent that I can return and discuss graded work in the live session. However, this plan only works if you submit your assignments on time. As a result, there will not be much flexibility with the due dates.

So, in summary, the key expectations for the course are:

1) watch the videos and do the readings BEFORE the live sessions
2) you MUST participate during the live sessions
3) assignments are due AS STATED on the learning management system

The ten-week format is quite demanding, but I think it will be interesting and engaging at the same time. I'm looking forward to "meeting you" at our first live session.
