Greetings, @class. Welcome to IST659, Data Administration Concepts & Database Management.

I’ve got a great course prepared and I’m excited to teach it to you! You can expect to learn a great deal about database concepts in a very short timeframe. Please allow me to take a moment of your time and run through some housekeeping items:

Live Sessions

Our live sessions meet Monday evenings from 7:00pm EST to 8:30pm Eastern time using Zoom and 2SU. I’ll have the live session up by 6:50pm so that you can make sure your audio and video are working. Our first live session will be Tuesday, January 19th. Please note that you will not have access to the course site in 2SU when this email arrives.

If you have difficulty accessing the course site, or joining the class during our live session, you can always reach out to the 2SU helpdesk. There is a chat window in the lower right corner of the web site where you can initiate a conversation with online help.

Once you are able to access the course, you will find the syllabus, as well as a document that lists the dates for readings and assignments. I will explain these documents, as well as important dates and deliverables, during our first class.

Syllabus

Please review the syllabus at the earliest opportunity. We will take some time to discuss the syllabus and course schedule in our first live session but in the interim, feel free to post any questions you may have to the course wall. You can also email me with your questions, but the Teams channel is preferred (more on that below) so your answer will be shared with your fellow classmates.

Textbook

The course textbook is:

Hoffer, J. A,, Ramesh, V., & Topi, H. (2016). Modern database management (12th ed.). New York, NY:Pearson.

ISBN13: 9780133544619

Older editions of the textbook should be okay to use.

Please note that the textbook is more of a reference than a guide. Most of the course material is available through asynchronous lectures and our live sessions.

Homework

We will have homework almost every week in this course as we practice actual techniques in database design and management. The homework discussed in the live session will be due before the subsequent session. For example, we will take time to discuss homework assignment 1 during our first live session, but it is not due until midnight the following Sunday, the day before the week 2 live session. I know that due dates can be confusing, so I have published a schedule in the Files section of this course.

We have a Microsoft Teams group for this course. The link to this group is:

https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3ac9251b8805334b44a66200408a41bcb2%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=e5227e94-e65e-4306-9229-016f4b1221eb&tenantId=4278a402-1a9e-4eb9-8414-ffb55a5fcf1e

I have added everyone on the roster to our Teams site, but there are occasional glitches, such as last-minute adds. If you cannot access the Teams site, please email me. We will use Teams during our live sessions for collaboration, for course announcements, and for your questions. We will use 2U for the meeting links, async material and gradebook.

Communication

I enjoy answering your questions. I want you to feel comfortable in reaching out to me, either through direct email at grblock@syr.edu, or by posting to the course wall. Your assignments are hands-on using lab resources, and you will likely encounter challenges and obstacles where intervention is required. 

Office Hours

My office hours are (all times are EST/EDT):

Monday, 6:00-7:00PM Eastern

You can email me to schedule an appointment.

My goal is to be responsive and informative whenever you need assistance. Please take advantage of that!

Again, I look forward to working with you over the next 11 weeks!

Dr. Gregory Block